# Credit Risk Evaluator

This project aims to predict the loan status (0 or 1) of a borrower based on their loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt-to-income ratio, number of accounts, derogatory marks, and total debt using two supervised machine learning models: a Logistic Regression model and a Random Forest Classifier. The data used for this project is located in the "Resources" folder under the name "lending_data.csv".

## Retrieve the Data

The data is imported using Pandas and stored in a DataFrame. The dataframe is displayed to confirm the import was successful.

## Predict Model Performance

Before creating, fitting, and scoring the models, a prediction is made as to which model will perform better. The prediction is made for the Random Forests Classifier, as it attempts to determine which features are most important based on how often they are selected. Therefore, it has the ability to determine which features play more of a role, and this could contribute to better performance.

## Split the Data into Training and Testing Sets

The data is split into training and testing sets using the **train_test_split** method from the **sklearn.model_selection** module.

## Create, Fit and Compare Models

Two models are created and fitted to the data: a Logistic Regression model and a Random Forest Classifier. The score of each model is printed to compare their performance. The results show that the Logistic Regression model had a score of 0.9925 and the Random Forest Classifier model had a score of 0.9918. Therefore, the prediction made earlier was incorrect, although only by a slim amount. The difference in scores is only around 0.0007. It seems for this dataset, both models are very accurate in predicting the risk level of given loans.

## References

Loan Approval Dataset (2022). Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
